
INFORMATII PROIECT TW

------------------------------------INTRO------------------------------------

For a healthy life and a good shaped body we have to be both physically active and carefull with food. We cannot go to the gym, exercise
and eat whatever and we cannot eat the best food but have zero physical activity, and expect good results (except if you have greek god genetics).

ABOUT FITNESS:

Starting a fitness program may be one of the best things you can do for your health.
After all, physical activity can reduce your risk of chronic disease, improve your balance and coordination,
help you lose weight, and even boost your self-esteem. And you can reap these benefits regardless of your age, sex or physical ability.
The Department of Health and Human Services recommends that healthy adults include aerobic activity and strength training in their fitness plans, specifically:
At least 150 minutes of moderate aerobic activity or 75 minutes of vigorous aerobic activity a week, or an equivalent combination of moderate and vigorous aerobic activity
Strength training exercises of all the major muscle groups at least twice a week.

Regular exercise can help you control your weight, reduce your risk of heart disease and certain cancers, and strengthen your bones and muscles. But if you haven't exercised for some time and you have health concerns, you may want to talk to your doctor before starting a new fitness routine.
When you're designing your personal fitness program, consider your fitness goals. Think about your fitness likes and dislikes, and note your personal barriers to fitness. Then consider practical strategies for keeping your fitness program on track.
Starting a fitness program is an important decision, but it doesn't have to be an overwhelming one. By planning carefully and pacing yourself, you can make fitness a healthy habit that lasts a lifetime.



ABOUT NUTRITION:

Nutrition is the study of how food and drink affects our bodies with a special regard to the essential nutrients necessary to support human health. 
It looks at the physiological and biochemical processes involved in nourishment and how substances in food provide energy or are converted into body tissues. 
These nutrients which are the source of energy for our bodies are classed as: carbohydrates, fats, fibre, minerals, proteins, vitamins, and water. 
Good nutrition means obtaining the right amount of nutrients from healthy foods in the right combinations.
An important part of the study of nutrition is looking at the diseases that can result from malnutrition and the role food plays in the development
of chronic disease.
Nutrition is also about why we choose to eat the food we do, even when we know they may not be good for us. What is going on at a cellular level and how does 
that affect what we crave and set up food cycles that are unhealthy or damaging.



---------------------------------FITNESS---------------------------------------------

--------------GENERAL FACTS--------------
Before we talk about workouts, suppliments and how to burn fat we first have to understand some facts about our bodies and fitness in general:

		-WE ARE DIFFERENT, and so are our bodies. If two people of same age, same weight, same height, same whatever, would train THE SAME
		they would NOT get the same results. The reason is because we have different GENETICS, and genetic plays the most important part in fitness.
		One person with good genetic can get better results twice or three times faster than a person with not so good genetic.			
		
		There are 3 MAIN types of "bodies" (somatic):
		
		Ectomorphs are long and lean, with little body fat, and little muscle. 
		They have a hard time gaining weight. Fashion models and basketball players fit this category.
		While most of us love to hate these genetically-blessed individuals, some male ectomorphs may not be thrilled with their narrow-chested frames,
		and some female ectomorphs long for more womanly curves.
		
		Endomorphs, on the other hand, have lots of body fat, lots of muscle, and gain weight easily.
		"Football lineman tend to be endomorphs -- they're heavier and rounder individuals," says Colby.
		"And they don't have to necessarily be overweight. Both Oprah Winfrey and Marilyn Monroe are classic examples of endomorphs."
		
		Mesomorphs are athletic, solid, and strong. "They're not overweight and not underweight," says Colby, 
		"and they can eat what they want without worrying too much about it." They both gain and lose weight without too much effort.
		
		People may have more than one body type. For example, ecto-endomorphs are pear-shaped. They have thinner upper bodies and more fat storage
		on the lower half.
        Endo-ectomorphs, on the other hand, are apple-shaped, with more fat storage in the upper body with thinner hips, thighs, and legs.
		
		-The only exercise you should hold your breath for is underwater swimming.
		
		-For every pound of muscle gained, the body burns 50 extra calories every day.
		
		-Exercise makes you feel more energized because it releases endorphins into the blood.
		
		-Regular physical exercise can help you sleep better.
		
		-It takes the body six to eight weeks to adapt to an exercise program.
		
		-Muscle mass diminishes at the rate of 1% a year in middle age.
		
		-It takes 12 weeks of an exercise routine before you start to see measurable changes to your body.
		
		-Women are less likely to bulk up as a result of weight lifting. But this doesn’t mean they can’t look toned (if you worry going to the gym
		will make you look like a man, don't worry, those bulky models on instagram are on enhance substances) .
		
		-
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		-------------------------------------------------------ANTRENAMENTE---------------------------------------------------
		
		BUILDING MUSCLES:
		
		Majoritatea oamenilor urmeaza 2 etape cand doresc sa puna masa: bulking and cut.
		Bulkingul inseamna sa te anrenezi in timp ce mananci cu mult peste nivelul caloric normal. In felul asta adaugi masa musculara mai usor,
		dar si nivelul de grasime creste considerabil.
		A doua etapa presupune tinerea unei diete foarte stricte pentru a pierde surplusul de grasime si pentru a deveni "lean".
		Abordarea aceasta nu este una foarte inteleapta pentru ca vei fi gras timp de 7-8 luni pe an dupa care te vei chinui foarte tare cu dieta.
		
		Cealalta metoda presupune cresterea masei in timp ce esti intr-un deficit caloric. Nu este foarte usoara, dar vei arata bine pe tot parcurul anului
		si nu vei fi nevoit sa ti dieta. Secretul este sa te antrenezi intens in timp ce esti intr-un deficit caloric intre 100-400 calorii.
		
		Diferenta dintre cele doua metode este ca a doua metoda iti va aduce mai putina masa musculara (8 vs 10 lbs pe an) dar te vei simti mai bine pentru ca nu
		esti nevoit sa tii dieta si in plus arati bine pe tot parcursul anului.
		
		
		LOSING WEIGHT:
		
		REGULA DE AUR: Singurul mod prin care poti pierde greutate este prin deficit caloric. Nu exista exercitii pentru arderea grasimii de pe abdomen
		sau alte parti ale corpului, grasime se arde in raport cu toata suprafata corpului.
		Nu e o cursa de viteza ci un maraton. Cu cat pierzi mai lent, dar constant, cu atat iti vei pastra noua greutate mai usor.

		
		THINGS TO AVOID WHEN YOU TRY TO LOOSE WEIGHT:
		(these things are not medical proven, but this is what works in real world)
		
		1.Fasting and skipping meals. 
		Your body goes in starvation mode and eventually crack and consume more calories.
		
		2.Avoiding artificial sweatness
		
		3.Loosing too fast. 
		If you loose too fast you loose muscles too and feel like garbage. Go slow and stady if you want to keep it.
		
		4.Avoiding the scale. 
		Checking your weight it is very important. If you loose more than 1% per week you are likely to loose muscles.
		
		5.Doing HIIT (a super intense type of cardio)
		A consistent cardio will burn more than a HIIT cardio. 
		
		6.Strict dieting. 
		This doesnt work for long term. Balance is the key to loose weight.
		
		7.Empty stomach cardio.
		This is a myth. 
		
		8.Not lifting weight.
		If you lift weights biuld more muscles that increase metabolism. Muscles need more calories so you burn more.
		
		9.Not sleeping enough
		
		10.Abusing fat burners
		If you want to use a fat burner do not use it in day one. Use it after a long period of time when you reached your full potential
		and cant loose weight any more. Use it as a boost, but not abuse it.
		
		-------------------------------------------------NUTRITIE-----------------------------------------------
		
		notes:
		
		 
		
		